## Clock Hand Angles

This is much more related to math than programming, but for those who are interested...

We'll imagine every hand is at 0 deg when they are pointed at 12 (directly upward).

Our task is to find the angles of each hand (second, minute and hour) given the current time.

A simple solution would be to have each hand only relate to its time unit, but this isn't how real clock hands move.

Each hand is concerned with its time unit as any time units smaller than its units.  As a result, the second hand is the easiest.

---

### Seconds

Each 360deg rotation contains 60 seconds, which means 1 second contains 360deg/60second = 6deg/second.

Hence:
```js
const secondAngle = second * 6;
```

---

### Minutes

To calculate the angle of the minutes hand we do a similar operation, but then have to add in the seconds.

Each 360deg rotation contains 60 minutes, so 1 minute contains 360deg/60minutes = 6deg/minute.

In addition, each 6deg contains 60 seconds, so 1 second contains 6deg/60seconds = .1deg/second.

Hence:
```js
const minuteAngle = minute * 6 + second * 0.1;
```

---

### Hours

Finally, we look at the most complicated, the hours.

Each 360deg rotation contains 12 hours, so 1 hour contains 360deg/12hours = 30deg/hour.

Add to that, each 30deg contains 60minutes, so 1 minute contains 30deg/60minutes = 0.5deg/minute.

Final addition, each 30deg contains 3600 seconds, so 1 second contains 30deg/3600seconds = 1/120 deg/second.

Hence:
```js
const hourAngle = hour * 30 + minute * 0.5 + (second * 0.1) / 12;
// or
const hourAngle = hour * 30 + minute * 0.5 + (second / 120 );
// I, the author, just did the math differently while writing the component.
```

Once we have the angles, the rest is just `CSS` work.

---

### A Final Note About the `CSS`

It is interesting to observe that when `CSS` goes from `transform: rotate(359deg)` to `transform: rotate(0deg)`, if animated, the element will back spin 359 deg rather than move forward 1 deg. We could get around this by drawing SVG or canvas vectors on every render, but then we wouldn't have animation unless we coded a sequence of frames. Alternatively, we could have kept adding angles up ex: 359 + 2 = 361 instead of 1, but the easiest way to manage this would be with `useRef`, which is a hook you haven't yet seen.